R workshop materials update for Nov 25 workshops (#37)
dfe-analytical-services/techskills_workshops: workshop_R.Rmd

\newpage

> # Getting started

Reviewer: Note to remove reference to using Git and Git chapter from the blue box below

Author: Removed this, thanks Lauren

> # Getting started

Reviewer: In the renv (optional) section below, should we make it clearer if theyve already ticked the renv box when creating the project, they wont need to install renv or do renv::init()?

Author: Yes definitely! I've ammended

> # Getting started

Reviewer: On line 293, we reference updating the renv lock - should we make it clearer here that  they only need to worry about that if they've decided to use renv in this training

Author: Good spot, amended now

```
## Loading in the data

There are multiple ways to load data into R, including:

1.  Reading in a **CSV** file,

2.  Loading data in directly from **SQL** servers,

> 3.  Making an API call, for example using the **sparklyr** package to access data stored in **Databricks**.

Reviewer: Do we want to remove the reference to sparklyr for now as we've removed that guidance?

Author: Yeah we should be consistent with the AG - I've removed this reference

`chosen_name <- readr::read_csv(insert_filename/filepath_here)`

Please download the CSV data file [HEA_some_student_results.csv](https://github.com/dfe-analytical-services/techskills_workshops/blob/main/data/HEA_some_student_results.csv); you can download it by clicking "More file actions" - the ellipsis on the same row as the file name. 

> For the below example, create a "data" folder inside your R project and save the CSV file inside this folder. Make sure the file name matches exactly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the example below, create a folder named "data" within your project directory (i.e., the folder where your .Rproj file is located). Save the CSV file inside this data folder, and ensure the file name matches exactly.
```

`chosen_name <- readr::read_csv(insert_filename/filepath_here)`

Please download the CSV data file [HEA_some_student_results.csv](https://github.com/dfe-analytical-services/techskills_workshops/blob/main/data/HEA_some_student_results.csv); you can download it by clicking "More file actions" - the ellipsis on the same row as the file name. 

> When you're reading in the CSV file for the below example, make sure that you have saved it inside a folder called "data" (you may need to create this folder yourself), and that the file name matches exactly.

Reviewer: Shall we make it clearer here that this should be where they created their project?

Author: Clarified this now :)

 sharp corners, 
 colframe=gssmidblue,
 width=0.9\linewidth,
 boxrule=0pt
 ]
Run a SQL script
\tcblower
First we'll need to source the utils.R script: \verb|source("R/utils.R")|.

Let's run the \verb|getSQL()| command with the example script as follows:

\begin{verbatim}
query <- getSQL("sql/aggregate_students.sql")
\end{verbatim}

This creates a string variable called \verb|query| containing the SQL script. We can now send this to the database using:

\begin{verbatim}
dbGetQuery(con, statement = query)
\end{verbatim}

Provided no-one has beaten you to it (that command won't overwrite an existing table if it already exists), this will create a new table in the database containing an aggregated view of the data. We can read this out using the command we used earlier to read a SQL table from the database:

\begin{verbatim}
student_results_aggregated_sql <- tbl(con, Id(schema = "dbo", 
          table = "sd_sandbox_student_results_aggregated"))
\end{verbatim}

(where this time we're explicitly defining the schema with the function \verb|Id|).

You should now find the aggregated data contained within the variable \verb|student_results_aggregated_sql|.
\end{tcolorbox}

> ```

Reviewer: On line 1791 (left side) below - we should make it clearer this is 'if' using renv

Author: I've clarified this now
